Jetze Baumfalk : 3471055
Barend Poot: 3539784

Questions:
4.a.i: It's linear in the sense that the the SVM divides the dataset in two parts using a straight line. In practice this means that you can only use a linear SVM (with 100% accuracy) if the data points belonging to each class are not mingled. E.g. if one data point from group A would be surrounded by data points from group B a lSVM wouldn't be able to draw a straight line to discern between group A and group B.

4.b.iii: the initial validation score of the model is 96.875% (with C=10 and examples=400, the default).
4.c.i: the C parameter is a regularization parameter (see http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~az/lectures/ml/lect2.pdf slide 16). It basically denotes how strict the SVM should be in enforcing that all the data are on the correct side of the  line. A low C means that we allow for more mistakes to be made, while a high C allows for less mistakes to be made. The reason we sometimes prefer a low C to a high C is that the maximum margin with a low C is larger than with a high C. So with a low C we might have a few more mistakes now, but we will probably have less mistakes when we take more samples compared to a high C.
4.c.ii: We've iterated over C between 1 and 9 (inclusive), with sample size between 100 and 900 (inclusive) with increments of 100, all while alternating between  equalize and whitening on/off. So in total we have checked 9*9*4 = 324 different configurations. We fixed the positive/negative sample ratio at 1. .Out of this we got the best result with C=2 and sample_size = 200, namely a validation of 98.5%.
4.c.iii All the support vectors are images, the W is sum of these images and is then interpreted as an image. So actually the model is the (normalized to pixel values) sum of the images. It looks like a face because all the support vectors look kind of like a face (both the support vectors of the 'faces'-side and the support vectors of the 'not-faces'-side), since all the support vectors are close to the division line.
4.c.iv.1: equalize makes sure that the sub windows don't deviate too much from the average.
whiten equalizes that the white-balance of the sub-windows , so that shadows don't play that much as a role.